# Decentral Banking for Games

*"Un-monopolize your favourite games!"*

### Summary

For perhaps as long as there have been games, there have been games about money and games with money. Many popular and long standing board games involve or use “funny money” to implement a system of accounting and a tool of exchange for keeping score amongst the players of the game.In these games, players move tokens around a game board representing their acting as a part of the game economy. They compete for or engage in the trading of virtual properties in a financial game of strategy, negotiation, and luck, trying to gain ownership or control of the majority of those properties to win the game.Transactions in the game are accounted for with physical paper notes representing units of value within the game. Also, a “Bank” entity is represented in the game as the source of these notes and the Bank has control over the issuance or access to these funds. The purpose of these games can be to help with the education of the players in how an economy or finance works in a fun friendly and competitive way. By creating a simplified financial environment, players can learn the more basic concepts of what would otherwise be a very complex system in the real world. This system of rules and adaptations is for board games using a system of financial accounting within it. It replaces the existing paper money of these games and it is designed to educate and inform the players on the workings of “decentralized applications”. These processes and rules represent the core functions of the “Bitcoin” protocol in a simplified form.### Game Banking
##### Board Game Banks:
In the game there will exist a bank entity and one of the players of the game will also act as the “Banker” and manage the accounts or cash of the bank. The bank issues the initial funds the players use in the game and also periodically pays players in new funds as they complete parts of the game play. This is the source of the funds available to be spent in the game economy by the players.
##### Replacing the Bank:
These additional rules will allow the players of the game to collectively manage a master ledger in which they can accurately and securely track the balance of funds they have earned in the game. This ledger will be used to replace the need for a single banker or paper notes in the game.
The outcome of replacing of the bank with a community ledger is that there will be no single player in the game that has control over the money of the game and therefore no one can cheat the system to his or her advantage.
##### Issuance of Game Money:
Just like the “Bitcoin” protocol, this system will employ a lottery for the issuance of currency. The players will compete in a lottery over the awarding of new credits into the ledger. Only players whose ledgers are accurate will qualify.
### Playing the Game

##### General Rules:
All players record all transactions as they occur and as they are verbally stated by the participants in the transaction during gameplay. Transactions take place under the normal rules of the game, the ledger is merely designed to replace the physical notes used to keep balances of accounts.At the end of every “round” all players then “reconcile” their version of the ledger. Then eligible players will participate in the “issuance lottery” to determine who’s version of the ledger is accepted as the current master ledger.##### Game Setup:
To play all that is needed is a way to record or write down the ledger information. Just like keeping score in a card game or other “scoring” game. Some nice ruled or grid paper would suffice. Using the game block ledger format will make it much easier.Setup and arrange you game as you normally would. Don’t bother to unpack the banking supplies from your storage boxes such or the physical “funny money”, they wont be needed.

##### Ledger Setup:
At the top of the ledger, indicate the number of players, and how much game currency is awarded each player by the regular game rules for each round or circuit.Each player in the game will be represented by an account. Accounts are labeled “A” through “F”, with an “Opt” optional account.##### Opening Balance:
Each block of transactions starts with an opening balance for each account. The initial amount that the central bank would issue to each player is instead simply recorded in each players account in the ledger at the beginning of the game.
In subsequence transaction blocks, the opening balance of each account is the balance carried forward from the previous block of transactions.
##### Quick Start:
Players may wish to accelerate their gameplay to observe the functioning of the ledger rather than go through their full gameplay. This is the best way to get right into the functioning of the ledger system.
In this case, players can refer to their games rules on such a game setup if they are available. Generally this merely involves the random distribution of properties or resources of the game in order to skip the beginning phase of the game where they are distributed.##### Full Gameplay Extension:
Players wishing to experience the flexibility of the master ledger system may choose to use the ledger from the beginning of the game. However, most often games have a way of charging fees to players for the initial acquisition of game property. Players may use the “Opt” optional column in the ledger as the decentral bank's account, to which fees in the game can be paid.
The amount in this account can be the block reward instead of the “Minimum Block Reward” if it is greater.##### Transactions:
All players will track all financial transactions occurring in the game. Simply add the amount of the transaction to the recipients account in the transaction row, and subtract it from the senders account in the same row. The ledger rows include room to keep a running total balance for easy reference.Transactions validity are based on the balance of any players account having the necessary funds available to cover the transaction values and comparing against previous balances, players can determine the validity of the transactions based on the availability of funds to cover them.##### Transaction Blocks:
A block of transactions, are those transactions on the current master ledger page in the game. At a certain point during gameplay the block will be “closed” under certain game conditions.A block of transactions does not necessarily need to reflect a game round. Players can choose to “close the block” whenever they agree. At least, the block is closed when there are no more room for transactions on the ledger page (aka “block limit”).For simplicity sake, these rules will simply state that the block will “close” when all players have completed a round or circuit of the game, or when the ledger is full, whichever comes first.
##### Closing the ledger:
All players must complete the ledger and reconcile balances in order to compete in the issuance lottery. Additionally, each player will write in their ledger an issuance transaction to their own account. One issuance transaction per block is permitted and each players issuance transaction will be different than the other players.##### Reward Lottery:
Since all players are have different versions of the ledger because of their reward transaction, the reward lottery is used to determine which version of the ledger, and therefor winner of the new “money”, will be accepted as the next block of transactions in the master ledger.Players will each roll 2 six sided dice. The player with the highest role is whose version of the ledger, including their unique issuance transaction, will be accepted as the latest version of the Master Ledger. Roll off any ties between players.All players must complete and be willing submit their ledgers for peer review by other players after the roll off. Any errors in their ledger render the winner ineligible for the lottery that round, increasing the odds of winning for the other players.Their physical copy is then added to the stack of previous winning versions of the master ledger.Other players will update their next version of their ledgers to reflect the winning latest block in the master ledger.##### Competitive VS Co-operative Processing:
Just as in the Bitcoin network, players can choose to pool their “resources” in the processing of a block by several or all players agreeing to split the rewards or shier their winnings with each other. These sharing transactions can be recorded in the next ledger block. Multiple transaction recipients are possible, as long as the total transaction balance is “0”.
##### The Master Ledger:
The winning players transaction page is added to previous winners transaction pages or “blocks” which together form the Master Ledger. The master ledger is open to inspection by anyone, and any recently published block in the ledger can be invalidated by any player if there are any errors, triggering a re-selection from remaining valid recent blocks.
This Master Ledger is the equivalent of the Bitcoin blockchain. A community ledger containing the full history and audit trail of each account and transaction. Decentrally processed and immune to direct fraud or attack, the security and power of these systems become apparent when the process is understood. It's not just what it is, it's how it works.